VGG Face Search
===============

Author:

 + Ernesto Coto, University of Oxford – <ecoto@robots.ox.ac.uk>

License: BSD (see `LICENSE.md`)

Overview
--------

This repository includes a face-search service meant to serve requests generated by the [vgg_frontend](https://gitlab.com/vgg/vgg_frontend) web interface. However, it could be easily adapted to server other clients. The source code for the service is located in the `service` folder. See the README file inside `service` for more information.

The repository also includes a data-ingestion pipeline mechanism to extract face-features from a user-defined dataset of images or a collection of videos. The output of this pipeline is then used by the face-search service to obtain the results of any search. The source code for the data-ingestion is located in the `pipeline` folder. See the README file inside `pipeline` for more information.

The two major dependencies are the face-detector and [Caffe](https://github.com/BVLC/caffe), in the case of ingesting videos [ffmpeg](https://www.ffmpeg.org/) is also a major dependency. They must be installed in the `dependencies` folder. See the `LICENSE.md` file for links to the license of these dependencies.

The model used for feature-extraction are located in the `models` folder. See the `LICENSE.md` file for links to the license of this model.

Supported platforms
-------------------

Successfully deployed on Ubuntu 14 LTS, macOS High Sierra v10.13.3 and Windows10 x64.

Installation Instructions
-------------------------

The service can run with or without GPU support. However, a different face-detector is used on each case, so different dependencies are needed.

For the Windows operating system, [DLib](http://dlib.net/) is used for face detection. Enabling GPU support depends on how DLib is deployed on the target computer.

For non-Windows operating systems:

 + Without GPU support: a CPU face-detector extracted from [facenet](https://github.com/davidsandberg/facenet) is used, along with [Caffe](https://github.com/BVLC/caffe) and pycaffe.
 + With GPU support: the GPU [Faster R-CNN python implementation](https://github.com/rbgirshick/py-faster-rcnn ) is used. This software includes its own version of Caffe, so there is no need to download another version.

In the `install` directory you will find installation scripts for Ubuntu and macOS, for the GPU-only and the CPU-only versions of the service. For having a service that supports both the GPU and the CPU just use the GPU-only installer and then download `facenet` into the `dependencies` folder. See the CPU-only installation script for the way to do it.

If you want to install the service in Windows, see the [Windows installer for VFF](https://gitlab.com/vgg/vgg_frontend/blob/master/install/install_vff_win64.bat) to get a rough idea of how to do the deployment.

Usage
-----

Before running the service for the first time, please check the `service/settings.py` file:

 1. Check that the `CUDA_ENABLED` flag is set to `False` if you used the CPU-only installation script or set to `True` if you used the GPU-only installation.
 2. Make sure that `DEPENDENCIES_PATH` points to the location of the place where the dependency libraries (e.g. Caffe) are installed.
 3. Make sure that `DATASET_FEATS_FILE` points to the location of your dataset features file. If you do not have one, you won't be able to run the service until you run the feature computation `pipeline`. See the README in the `pipeline` directory.
 4. Adjust `MAX_RESULTS_RETURN` as you wish.
 5. Only change the rest of the settings if you really know what you are doing.

If you already have adjusted the settings and have a dataset feature file, you should be ready to start the service. To do so, start a command-line terminal and use it to go inside the `service` folder, then execute the `start_backend_service.sh` script (`start_backend_service.bat` for Windows). Use that script file to define or modify any environment variables required by your local setup.

The service should be reachable at the HOST and PORT specified in the settings.
